Login/Settings
Assistant Professor,
Communication, Tenure Track
APPLY NOW
Assistant Professor, Communication, Tenure Track
 498438
 Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States
 Full-time Faculty
⚙ VIEW FAVORITES
Salary/Position Classification
$65,000 9-Month Contract, Exempt
40 hours per week
This position will work onsite at UND Grand Forks, ND campus
Purpose of Position
The Department of Communication at the University of North Dakota
seeks a tenure-track Assistant Professor of Communication with
expertise in one or more of the following areas: international/intercultural
communication, interpersonal communication, organizational
⭐ ADD TO FAVORITES
communication, sports communication, strategic communication, and
communication and technology.
The University of North Dakota is supportive of dual-career assistance
both within the University and the local community. Please be sure to
notify our Recruiting Manager, Hannah Whalen
( Hannah.Whalen@UND.edu ) right away to explore dual-career
opportunities.
Established in 1883, the University of North Dakota is the oldest
research university in North Dakota. Founded with a strong liberal arts
foundation, it is the state’s flagship university and is classified by the
Carnegie Foundation as having very high research activity. UND offers
degrees in more than 225 fields of study with nearly 16,000 students. It
is the home of the state’s only School of Law and School of
Medicine. The School of Medicine and Health Sciences has major
initiatives in rural and public health, and Aerospace is home to one of the
first and largest unmanned aerial vehicle programs in the world.
UND is located in Grand Forks, North Dakota, a vibrant college town of
roughly 60,000 people located on the border of North Dakota and
Minnesota. Short commutes, a great public-school system, high quality
medical facilities, low crime, ample parks and theaters, and a cost of
living below that found in large American cities are some of Grand Forks’
advantages. Ranked as one of the top 5 Best Small College Towns, and
America’s Best Hockey Town, Grand Forks offers stellar quality of life
without the metropolitan hassles.
Duties & Responsibilities
The successful applicant will receive an initial contract with an
approximate effort distribution of 50% teaching, 40% research, and 10%
service. we value a broad range of perspectives and actively seek
applicants committed to the success of our students.
Publishing peer-reviewed journal articles and applying for competitive
external grants on a regular basis will be expected for tenure. The
annual teaching load will be 2/1 or 1/2 with an expectation of advising
multiple Ph.D. students at varying stages of degree completion per
academic year. Information about the Ph.D. program can be found here:
https://und.edu/programs/communication-phd/ . The successful
candidate will be expected to teach undergraduate- and graduate-level
courses both face-to-face and online. Assigned courses will be
consistent with the area of expertise.
Required Competencies
Established ability to conduct and publish scientific studies
Excellent written and oral communication skills, including evidence
of the ability to teach, inspire, and mentor students
Effective interpersonal skills, including the ability to collaborate
effectively with faculty, staff, and students
Ability and willingness to work with and engage people with a broad
range of backgrounds within and outside the Department of
Communication
Ability to adapt to current methods of teaching, including online
delivery
Minimum Requirements
Ph.D. in Communication or related discipline by 8/15/2027
Successful completion of a Criminal History Background Check
In compliance with federal law, all persons hired will be required to verify
identity and eligibility to work in the US and to complete the required
employment eligibility verification form upon hire.
Preferred Qualifications
Experience advising and/or mentoring graduate students
Evidence of track record of research, teaching, education, and/or
professional experience related to communication
Experience being part of an externally (grant)-funded research
team(s)
Evidence of applying for and/or obtaining external funding
Experience incorporating artificial intelligence (AI) into research and
teaching
Experience teaching both undergraduate-level and graduate-level
courses in a Department of Communication’s curriculum
Experience teaching online courses
To Apply
To assure full consideration, applications must be received by
11/15/2026 and include the following materials:
Letter of application
Curriculum vitae
List of at least three references (including contact information)
Position is open until filled.
Questions can be directed to the Department Chair, Joonghwa Lee, at
joonghwa.lee@und.edu.
Please note, all employment postings close at 11:55pm CST.
Position Benefits
Benefits include single or family health care coverage (UND pays the full
premium), life insurance, employee assistance program, retirement
plans with generous employer contributions, sick leave in addition to
paid holidays.
Optional benefits include supplemental life, dental, vision, flexible
spending account, supplemental retirement plans.
UND also offers an employee tuition waiver and a variety of professional
development opportunities .
Find out more about UND's great benefits and perks !
Want to be notified of similar
opportunities?
First Name
Last Name
CATEGORIES:
Tenure/Tenure-track Faculty
DEPARTMENT:
Communication Dept
Other UND Career Openings
Assistant Professor, Strategic Communication,
Tenure Track
• Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States • Communication Dept •
The Department of Communication at the University of North Dakota
seeks a tenure-track Assistant Professor of Communication focusing on
strategic communication strategic communication, such as advertising
Email
reCAPTCHA
I'm not a robot
By submitting this form, you consent to receive text messages related to available
jobs and information about working at UND. Message & data rates may apply.
Message frequency varies. Unsubscribe at any time by replying STOP or clicking
the unsubscribe link (where available). By submitting your information, you
acknowledge that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use .
Communication Dept
Tenure/Tenure-track Faculty
Full-time Faculty
Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States
SEND
and public relations, who employs quantitative, qualitative, and/or
computational research methods.
Assistant Professor, Digital Journalism & Media
Production, Tenure Track
• Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States • Communication Dept •
The Department of Communication at the University of North Dakota
seeks a tenure-track Assistant Professor of Communication focusing on
digital journalism and media production.
Assistant Professor, Health & Science
Communication, Tenure Track
• Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States • Communication Dept •
The Department of Communication at the University of North Dakota
seeks a tenure-track assistant professor who has expertise in science
and health communication within diverse social, cultural, political, and
global contexts and who employs either qualitative, quantitative, and/or
computational research methods.
Apply Now
First Name (required)
Last Name (required)
Email (required)
reCAPTCHA
I'm not a robot
By submitting this form, you consent to receive text messages related to available
jobs and information about working at UND. Message & data rates may apply.
Message frequency varies. Unsubscribe at any time by replying STOP or clicking
the unsubscribe link (where available). By submitting your information, you
acknowledge that you have read and agree to our Terms of Use .
Additional Information
Find out why Grand Forks is Cooler .
All information listed in this position announcement will be used by
Human Resources, the Hiring Department, and Civil Rights & Title IX for
screening, interviewing and selection purposes.
Need help?
Please email the Human Resources Department
at UND.humanresources@UND.edu or contact us by phone at 701-
777-4226. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation to
participate in any portion of the University's employment process,
including completion of the online application process, please contact
our office in advance of your participation or visit.
Veteran’s Preference
Veterans claiming preference must submit all proof of eligibility by the
closing date. Proof of eligibility includes a DD-214 or a copy of NGB 22
from National Guard or Reserve (with a unit located in ND) or
certification from the applicant's unit command that the individual is
APPLY
expected to be discharged or released from active duty in the uniformed
services under other than dishonorable conditions not later than one
hundred twenty days after the date of the submission of the certification.
If claiming disabled veteran status, proof of eligibility includes a DD-214
and a current letter of disability dated within the past year.
Confidentiality of Application Materials
Pursuant to NDCC 44-04-18.27, applications and any records related to
the applications that identify an applicant are confidential, except records
related to the finalists of the position, which are open to the public after
the search committee has identified the top three or more finalists who
will be invited to campus.
EEO Statement
The University of North Dakota is an equal opportunity employer
(veteran/disability). All qualified applicants will receive consideration for
employment without regard to race, color, national origin (including
shared ancestry/ethnicity), religion, sex, age, disability, sexual
orientation, gender identity, pregnancy or pregnancy-related condition,
genetic information, marital or parental status, veteran's status, or other
protected characteristic. Veterans and individuals with disabilities are
encouraged to apply.
Clery Statement
In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Campus Safety Act and Campus
Crime Statistics Act, the University of North Dakota publishes an Annual
Security and Fire Safety Report. The report includes the university’s
policies, procedures, and programs concerning safety and security, as
well as three years of crime statistics for our campus. As a prospective
employee, you are entitled to a copy of this report. The report and
UND.humanresources@UND.edu | 701.777.4226
Careers at UND
Staff Jobs
Student Jobs
Faculty Jobs
Part-time & Temporary Positions
© 2023 University of North Dakota - Grand Forks, ND - Member of ND University
System
Accessibility & Website Feedback
Terms of Use & Privacy
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Student Disclosure Information
Title IX
statistical data can be found online at UND.edu. You may also request a
paper copy of the report from the UND Police Department located at
3851 Campus Road, Grand Forks, ND, 58202.