Apply for Job
Previous Job Assistant Professor Next Job
Job ID 303294
Location Georgia College & State Univ
Full/Part Time Full-Time
Regular/Tem … Regular
Add to My Favorite Jobs
Email this Job
About Us
Georgia College & State University (GCSU) is the state's designated public liberal arts university, where
students learn the essential skills to compete in a fast-paced and technology-driven global society. The
university prepares students for successful careers, leadership in communities, problem solving and life-long
learning through personalized attention in a residential setting with opportunities for a variety of
transformational experiences through its award-winning, high-impact practices. One of only three selective
universities within the University System of Georgia and a top 10 ranked public university in the Southeast,
GCSU offers undergraduate degrees in more than 40 majors, more than 30 graduate programs, doctorates in
education and nursing, professional certificates, and continuing education programs.
As a member of the prestigious Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges (COPLAC), GCSU is committed to
fostering a liberal arts environment that values academic preeminence, interdisciplinary inquiry and an
inclusive learning community. GCSU enjoys a strong reputation for academic excellence and nationally
ranked programs according to US News & World Report, The Princeton Review and Colleges of Distinction -
among other ranking sources.
Georgia College & State University takes great pride in combining the educational experience of a private
liberal arts college with the affordability of a public university. Faculty and staff are dedicated to student
engagement and experiential learning through high-impact practices such as internships, service- and
community-based learning, leadership development, study abroad opportunities, mentored undergraduate
research and a capstone project that fosters intellectual curiosity, reasoned inquiry and critical thinking.
The university's beautiful and historic campus is located downtown in Milledgeville, Georgia, a charming
college town of approximately 19,000 residents in Central Georgia, and only 90 miles southeast of Atlanta.
Milledgeville is also the home of noted American author and alumna, Flannery O'Connor, '45, and the college
community enjoys many exciting literary arts programs at O'Connor's former home, Andalusia, a National
Historic Landmark owned by the university. Milledgeville is located on the banks of beautiful Lake Sinclair and
Lake Oconee, allowing faculty, staff and students to take full advantage of the environmental and recreational
benefits of being part of a lake community. For cultural, educational and leisure opportunities beyond
Milledgeville - Macon and Atlanta are located within easy driving distances.
Georgia College & State University is dedicated to protecting academic freedom in addition to supporting
freedom of expression as outlined in the University System of Georgia's Freedom of Expression and
Academic Freedom policy and its Ethics Code of Conduct. For more information, visit us online at gcsu.edu.
Job Summary
The Department of Communication at Georgia College & State University invites applications for a tenure-
track Assistant Professor position in strategic communication, with an emphasis in advertising or public
relations. The ideal candidate will teach courses in strategic communication writing, campaigns, media
management, social media strategy, and principles of public relations, as well as quantitative research
Job Description
methods, and will have the ability to teach additional department courses in advertising, strategic
communication, and introductory mass communication. The position may also contribute to the university
core curriculum. The faculty member will teach four courses each semester, mentor and advise students,
participate actively in service, and maintain an active research or creative agenda.
Required Documents
Cover Letter
CV
Unofficial transcripts (official transcripts required upon job offer)
List of Three References with email, phone number and relationship to applicant.
Teaching Philosophy statement
Portfolio of work upon request
Responsibilities
Faculty - Teaching/Instructing -
Teaching Responsibilities
Full-time instructional load teaching in areas of expertise within the academic discipline
Regular course meetings and instruction
Mentoring students
Other teaching responsibilities
Knowledge and ability to convey current philosophies, practices, and theories related to the academic
discipline.
All Georgia College & State University faculty share the responsibility of teaching the core curriculum and
providing foundation courses for majors and non-majors alike. Faculty employees also contribute to the
Georgia College & State University core curriculum by teaching topical freshman (GC1Y) or sophomore
seminar (GC2Y) courses.
Faculty - Professional Development -
Faculty are expected to conduct research and develop within the profession.
Academic Achievement/Professional Development
Publications (editing, citations)
Presentations at professional meetings
Publication; peer reviewed scholarship
Current work in circulation or in progress
Grants received or applied for
Membership and participation in professional organizations
Other professional service or development activities
Faculty - Service to Institution -
All faculty are expected to support the advancement of the department, college and university mission by
providing service to the institution. Service may be at the department, college, university, community and/or
disciplinary level. Duties include service on college-level and university-level committees, advising students
regarding career options, and support of department-level outreach activities.
Service to the Institution
Committee memberships and offices
Programs directed and advised
Participation in special programs or projects
Other service in the institution
Ability to work collegially with others in service to the University, supporting the advancement of the
department, college, and university mission.
Faculty - Public Service -
Public service is often a part of faculty service expectations and might include activities such as the following:
Consulting work
Provide continuing education service, instruction, or program development for department, school, college, or
university
Membership and participation in community organizations
Other significant services to the community
Other duties and responsibilities -
All Georgia College & State University faculty share the responsibility of teaching our core curriculum and
providing foundation courses for majors and non-majors alike. To carry out our public liberal arts mission, we
seek faculty with the ability to engage students as they launch their intellectual journey.
Required Qualifications
Educational Requirements
PhD in communication or a closely related field by the date of appointment; must meet SACSCOC faculty
credential requirements.
Required Experience
Prior teaching experience at the university level.
Ability to teach quantitative research methods.
Professional experience in public relations, advertising, or strategic communication, including hands-on work
planning and executing campaigns and managing social media for organizations or clients.
Preferred Qualifications
Additional Preferred Qualifications
Active quantitative research agenda.
Experience with integrated campaigns or client-based service learning.
Proposed Salary
The proposed salary is $62,000
Knowledge, Skills, & Abilities
ABILITIES
Ability to teach quantitative research methods.
Build positive student relationships and provide mentorship
Engage in continuous professional development
Manage multiple courses and administrative responsibilities
Solve problems and make data-driven decisions
Collaborate with colleagues and participate in service
Demonstrate leadership and take initiative
Adapt to changing institutional needs
Maintain accurate records and meet deadlines
KNOWLEDGE
Subject matter expertise and current disciplinary trends
Curriculum design and program outcome alignment
Assessment methods and student learning measurement
Accreditation standards (SACSCOC and discipline-specific)
Academic policies, procedures, and ethics
Adult learning principles and adaptive learning styles
Educational technology and learning management systems
SKILLS
Teaching:
Course design and delivery
Learning activity development and facilitation
Technology integration and LMS proficiency
Instructional adaptation
Assessment:
Valid assessment instrument development
Constructive feedback provision
Data analysis for instructional improvement
Communication:
Clear verbal and written communication
Professional presentation abilities
Active listening and collaboration
Technology:
Discipline-relevant software proficiency
Multimedia and presentation tools
Basic troubleshooting capabilities
USG Core Values
The University System of Georgia is comprised of our 25 institutions of higher education and learning as well
as the System Office. Our USG Statement of Core Values are Integrity, Excellence, Accountability, and
Respect. These values serve as the foundation for all that we do as an organization, and each USG
community member is responsible for demonstrating and upholding these standards. More details on the
USG Statement of Core Values and Code of Conduct are available in USG Board Policy 8.2.18.1.2 and can
be found on-line at https://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section8/C224/#p8.2.18_personnel_conduct.
Additionally, USG supports Freedom of Expression as stated in Board Policy 6.5 Freedom of Expression and
Academic Freedom found on-line at https://www.usg.edu/policymanual/section6/C2653.
Equal Employment Opportunity
Equal opportunity and decisions based on merit are fundamental values of the University System of Georgia
(USG). The Board of Regents prohibits discrimination on the basis of an individual's age, color, disability,
genetic information, national origin, race, religion, sex, or veteran status ("protected status"). No individual
shall be excluded from the participation in, denied the benefits of, or otherwise subjected to unlawful
discrimination, harassment, or retaliation under, any USG program or activity because of the individual's
protected status; nor shall any individual be given preferential treatment because of the individual's protected
status, except that preferential treatment may be given on the basis of veteran status when appropriate under
federal or state law.
Other Information
This is not a supervisory position.
This position does not have any financial responsibilities.
This position will not be required to drive.
This role is not considered a position of trust.
This position does not require a purchasing card (P-Card).
This position will not travel
This position does not require security clearance.
Background Check
Criminal Background Check + Education Verification