

Previous Job
Assistant Professor, Strategic Communication, Hubbard School of
Journalism and Mass Communication
Next Job
We are seeking an outstanding scholar with research and teaching experience that address contemporary
issues in public relations and the strategic communication professions. An ideal candidate should have a
research agenda that centers issues of public relations in the context of artificial intelligence and/or social
media. This agenda may relate to areas such as (but not limited to) corporate social responsibility, public
relations management, activist public relations, and crisis and risk communication. A preference will be
given to individuals with professional experience in public relations/communications. The School seeks
applicants whose research, practice, teaching, and service will further the undergraduate and graduate
curriculum in strategic communication, as well as contribute to fostering diversity, equity, and inclusion in
higher education and at the University of Minnesota.
The successful candidates for this position will show outstanding promise and/or evidence of sustaining a
vigorous program of original research and publication with potential for external funding; show promise
and/or evidence of excellence in undergraduate and graduate teaching and advising (both M.A. and
Ph.D.); and demonstrate the capacity and commitment to teach undergraduate courses in the areas of
strategic communication case analysis, strategic communication campaigns, management for strategic
communication, digital strategy for strategic communication, professional writing for strategic
communication, and other strategic communication skills courses. The ability to contribute to the graduate
curriculum in areas related to theory and research in public relations and advanced methods is preferred.
Professional experience and the capacity to contribute to the ongoing development and delivery of a
rapidly evolving AI and emerging-media focused professional curriculum is also preferred.
The faculty and staff at the Hubbard School of Journalism and Mass Communication are committed to
building a culturally and socially diverse community. We believe it is a vital component of the distinction
and excellence of our research and academic programs. We are eager to welcome a colleague who
supports and enhances the School’s efforts toward inclusion, equity and the creation of a place where all
constituents can thrive.
Faculty in the Hubbard School of Journalism and Mass Communication in the College of Liberal Arts are
expected to maintain an active program of scholarly research that includes publication, develop and teach
undergraduate and graduate courses; advise students; and contribute service appropriate for the rank of
appointment to the school, college, University, and profession. For more information see:
The Standards for Promotion and Tenure in the Hubbard School of Journalism and Mass
Communication
The Workload Principles and Guidelines for Regular Faculty in the College of Liberal Arts
Qualifications
Required Qualifications : Ph.D. in Public Relations, Strategic Communication, Mass Communication, or
relevant
discipline by the date of appointment. Demonstrated experience or ability to teach professionally-oriented
undergraduate public relations/strategic communication skills courses. Demonstrated scholarly output
relevant to the field of public relations/strategic communication in the context of artificial intelligence
and/or social media.
MYU : FOR STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF
Job Description

Links in the document: https://faculty.umn.edu/sites/faculty.umn.edu/files/2023-04/HSJMC_7.12_standards_for_promotion_and_tenure_2020.pdf https://neighborhood.cla.umn.edu/college-knowledge/workload-principles-and-guidelines http://www.myu.umn.edu/