Sign In Create Profile
Back to Search
Human Communication and Technology
Assistant Professor/Associate Professor
Department of Communication
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
The Department of Communication at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign seeks a nine-month full-
time Assistant Professor or Associate Professor in the area of Human Communication and Technology with an
emphasis that connects with our departmental strengths in health, interpersonal, or organizational
communication.
Research and teaching should focus on technologies used in communication between or among people. Specific
research foci may include the implications and usage of AI in interpersonal relationships, group deliberations,
teams, or healthcare organizations; AI and the automation of communication processes, the communication
practices involved in automation, or organizational deliberations about automation; the impact of social media
and algorithms on human communicative processes; or the implications of potentially transformative
technologies for human communication (e.g., generative AI, agentic AI, immersive technologies, wearables,
English (US) 
Assistant/Associate Professor-
Communication, College of Liberal Arts &
Sciences
Urbana, IL, United States | 1037107
Apply Now Share   Save Job
Posted on: 7/29/2026

algorithmic management platforms, surveillance technologies, hyperfast networks, AI supply chains and
infrastructure, quantum computing).
The candidate will join departmental colleagues with varied disciplinary backgrounds in a unit of 22 graduate
faculty members and 11 specialized faculty members. The department supports undergraduate and Master’s
programs (including an online MS program in health communication) as well as one of the nation’s oldest and
most distinguished doctoral programs.
For more information about us, visit https://communication.illinois.edu/
The successful candidate will contribute to the mission of the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences at the University
of Illinois, where curiosity drives impact. As the heart of a leading land-grant research university, LAS brings
together diverse disciplines to explore fundamental questions and address complex challenges. We prepare
students for a lifetime of inquiry, leadership, and service through innovative research, transformative teaching,
and thoughtful mentoring. We strongly encourage applications from those who have demonstrated the
knowledge, skills, and experience needed to be effective teachers for our student population with its wide range
of backgrounds and experiences, in alignment with the mission of our university. To learn more about the
mission, vision, and values of the College of Liberal Arts & Sciences, visit: https://las.illinois.edu
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Successful candidates are expected to teach effectively at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, establish
and maintain an active and independent research program, and provide service to the department, the university,
and the profession. We seek candidates with demonstrated experience engaging with students representing the
full breadth of identities to impact the holistic educational and learning environment of the students enrolled in
the department and the campus at large.
QUALIFICATIONS
A doctorate in communication or related field is required before the target start date of August 16, 2027.
Applicants must show evidence or promise of developing a record of teaching effectiveness and independent
social scientific research. Applicants also should demonstrate promise of securing external funding. Applicants
must have either (a) a record of publication indicative of an associate professor for appointment at that rank or
(b) evidence of a promising research agenda indicative for appointment at the rank of assistant professor.
Candidates whose doctorate may be delayed but will complete all the degree requirements within the first
appointment year may be appointed at the rank of Instructor. After the doctorate requirements are met, the
appointment will be changed to Assistant Professor.
SALARY AND APPOINTMENT INFORMATION
This is a full-time, 9-month appointment, tenure-track/tenured position. The expected start date is August 16,
2027. The budgeted salary range for the position is $93,000 to $100,000 at the Assistant Professor level, $100,000
to $121,000 at the Associate Professor level, for a 9-month service basis (paid over 12 months). The pay offered
to the selected candidate will be determined based on factors including (but not limited to) the experience and
qualifications of the selected candidate, including equivalent years in rank, training, and field or discipline;
internal equity; and external market pay for comparable jobs. This position will be expected to work at the
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign campus on a full-time basis per the University’s Workplace Flexibility
policy. This position is eligible for sponsorship for work authorization, except for sponsorship of a new H1B
petition that would incur the $100,000 fee.
To find out more about the resources available at the university and Urbana-Champaign community, please visit
these sites:
Benefits -Employee benefits are competitive and include those in recognized marriages or civil unions (for same-
sex and different-sex partners).
Dual Career Program
Explore Champaign-Urbana
Work-life balance and family-friendly programs
APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND DEADLINE INFORMATION
To apply for this position, please create your candidate profile at https://jobs.illinois.edu/ .
Applicants must submit a letter of application addressing how they meet the required and preferred
qualifications for the position, curriculum vitae, a document of no more than 10 pages summarizing evidence of
teaching effectiveness (e.g., a brief teaching portfolio, course materials, student evaluations, peer reviews), and
statement of research interests.
We ask that all documents be uploaded in a single .pdf file as an upload in the “Resume/CV” section. Letters of
recommendation may be requested electronically from referees at a later date. Only applications submitted
through the University of Illinois Job board will be considered. To ensure full consideration, applications must be
received by 6pm (CST) on September 15, 2026 .
For further information about the position, please contact: Leanne Knobloch, Professor and Search Chair;
knobl@illinois.edu .
Questions regarding the application materials may be directed to lascollegehiring@illinois.edu
For questions regarding the application portal, please contact 217-333-2137 or jobs@illinois.edu .
Founded in 1867 as Illinois’s flagship public university, the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign empowers a
global community of students, scholars, and alumni to change the world through bold, innovative research and
transformative education. With a land-grant heritage rooted in progress, Illinois faculty drive paradigm-shifting
discoveries, mentor future leaders, and collaborate across 15 colleges and instructional units and more than 20
research institutes. The university’s legacy of excellence includes 24 Nobel Prizes and 29 Pulitzer Prizes
awarded to its faculty and alumni, $755 million in sponsored research funding, and 94 academic programs ranked
in the top 20 nationally. Illinois offers the resources, recognition, and reach to accelerate your career — along
with a highly competitive benefits portfolio. Discover how the Illinois Value Proposition fosters professional
longevity, personal fulfillment, and a deep sense of purpose in every role.
Faculty Recruitment
Champaign-Urbana
The University of Illinois must also comply with applicable federal export control laws and regulations and, as
such, reserves the right to employ restricted party screening procedures for applicants.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools may be used in some portions of the candidate review process for this position;
however, all employment decisions will be made by a person.
This position is intended to be eligible for benefits . This includes Health, Dental, Vision, Life Insurance, a
Retirement Plan, Paid time Off, and Tuition waivers for employees and dependents.
The University of Illinois System is an equal opportunity employer, including but not limited to disability and/or
veteran status, and complies with all applicable state and federal employment mandates. Please visit Required
Employment Notices and Posters to view our non-discrimination statement and find additional information about
required background checks, sexual harassment/misconduct disclosures, and employment eligibility review
through E-Verify .
Applicants with disabilities are encouraged to apply and may request a reasonable accommodation under the
Americans with Disabilities Act (2008) to complete the application and/or interview process. Accommodations
may also be requested on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth, and related conditions, or religion. Requests may be
submitted through the reasonable accommodation portal , or by contacting the Office for Access & Equity at 217-
333-0885, option #1, or accessibility@illinois.edu .
Requisition ID : 1037107
Job Category : Faculty
Apply at: https://jobs.illinois.edu
Apply Now Share   Save Job
Looking for more University of Illinois Positions?
We invite you to search for positions at each of the University of Illinois' locations,
the University of Illinois System Office and the University of Illinois Foundation. The
University of Illinois System Office supports the primary missions of teaching,
research, public service, and economic development for all of the Universities and
offers positions in all locations. The University of Illinois Foundation is the official
fundraising and private gift-receiving agency for the University of Illinois and also
offers position in all locations. Click the links below to search for other University of
Illinois positions.
University of Illinois Chicago
University of Illinois Springfield
University of Illinois System Office
University of Illinois Foundation
Illinois Human Resources
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
Personnel Services Building - MC 562
52 E. Gregory Dr.
Champaign, IL 61820
217.333.2137 | jobs@illinois.edu
humanresources.illinois.edu