Assistant Professor
Department: Management & Organizations
The Management and Organizations Department of the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern
University invites applications for tenure-track faculty positions. We are primarily interested in
applications at the rank of Assistant Professor, but we will also consider outstanding candidates at the
rank of Associate or Full Professor. Applicants should demonstrate an interest in topics relevant to
management or organizations and provide evidence of outstanding research potential and an ability to
enhance the department’s research and teaching portfolio. The department supports diverse approaches
to research, grounded in psychology, sociology, organizational behavior and theory, strategic
management and computational social science. A PhD or equivalent degree must be in hand or expected
by employment start date.
To apply, please submit the following: a brief cover letter, a current CV, a research statement, one to
three publications or working papers, and three letters of recommendation.
For full consideration, all application materials must be received by September 15, 2026.
Information about the department can be found on our website. Further inquiries about the position can
be directed to MORSrecruiting@kellogg.northwestern.edu .
Applications accepted here: https://facultyrecruiting.northwestern.edu/apply/MjU2Mw==
The expected base pay range for this position is $222,000 - $240,000. This base pay range is for a nine-
month academic appointment, does not include summer salary, and is subject to negotiation. Research
discretionary funding will also be provided. Summer salary, including from sponsored projects, may also
be available.
Northwestern University has provided a pay range representing its good faith estimate of what the
university reasonably expects to pay for the position. The pay offered to the selected candidate will be
determined based on factors including but not limited to the experience and qualifications of the selected
candidate including years since terminal degree; training; field or discipline; departmental budget
availability; internal comparators; and external market pay for comparable jobs.
At Northwestern, we are proud to provide meaningful, competitive, high-quality health care plans,
retirement benefits, tuition discounts and more!
Visit https://www.northwestern.edu/hr/benefits/index.html to learn more.
Northwestern University is an Equal Opportunity Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of
protected characteristics, including disability and veteran status. View Northwestern’s non-
discrimination statement . Job applicants who wish to request an accommodation in the application or
hiring process should contact the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX Compliance. View additional
information on the accommodations process .